# Dragon-Warrior-WGAN
Dragon Warrior is a video game released on the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) in 1989. Most of the gameplay involves exploring the world map. The problem considered here is approximating the distribution of the images which the player sees during this exploration, using a generative adversarial network (GAN). The dataset used consists of about 68,000 images pulled from gameplay footage I obtained myself. NES images have dimensions 256x240, but to make the problem more tractible, I cropped them to 64x64 (see examples in the folder "real images"). This distribution of images is interesting because it consists of a relatively small number of very distinct assests that may occur in many different configurations (contrast this with images of faces, for example). The problem is also interesting because the images need to be nearly pixel-perfect for them to look like real images of an NES game. 

After experimenting with a "vanilla" GAN, I changed the algorithm to a Wasserstein GAN (WGAN), following the paper "Wasserstein GAN" by Arjovsky, Chintala, and Bottou. After this, performance was still unsatisfactory, so I upraged to a WGAN with gradient penalty, following the paper "Improved Training of Wasserstein GANs" by Gulrajani, Ahmed, Arjovsky, Dumoulin, and Courville. The code is written with python, using TensorFlow and Keras. The generator and discriminator networks were trained for 185 epochs (each epoch took about 26 minutes running on my laptop's gpu, NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1060), manually decreasing the learning rate by factors of about 1/2 (starting at 1e-4 and ending at 1e-7). Although the original WGAN paper recommends a large value of the hyperparameter n_critic (the ratio of number of updates of discriminator to number of updates to generator), specifically n_critic = 5, I found that such large values lead to strange effects in the images (e.g., large splotches of color). During my training, n_critic = 2 seemed to be the optimal value. 

See the folder "generated_images" for some fake images generated according to the approximate distribution. The folder "images_generated_along_axes" contains some collections of images created by randomly choosing a point in the domain of the generated, taking 3 small steps (length 0.7) along each of the first two dimensions of the domain, and applying the generator to the resulting 4x4 grid of points; these collections illustrate how the generated images vary over the domain.
